Add Rust hosting docs (#2041)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/community-toolkit/hosting-rust.md

---
title: Rust hosting
author: Alirexaa
description: Learn how to use the .NET Aspire Rust hosting integration to host Rust applications.
ms.date: 11/12/2024
---

# .NET Aspire Rust hosting

[!INCLUDE [includes-hosting](../includes/includes-hosting.md)]

[!INCLUDE [banner](includes/banner.md)]

> In this article, you learn how to use the .NET Aspire Rust hosting integration to host Rust applications.

Reviewer: The intro paragraph needs to be a bit more detailed. It should link to Rust docs, and describe exactly what the value-proposition is that the hosting integration is providing. For inspiration, see the [intro paragraph here](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/caching/stackexchange-redis-integration?branch=pr-en-us-2041&tabs=dotnet-cli&pivots=redis).

## Hosting integration

To get started with the .NET Aspire Rust hosting integration, install the [📦 CommunityToolkit.Aspire.Hosting.Rust](https://nuget.org/packages/CommunityToolkit.Aspire.Hosting.Rust) NuGet package in the AppHost project.

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package CommunityToolkit.Aspire.Hosting.Rust
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="CommunityToolkit.Aspire.Hosting.Rust"
                  Version="*" />
```

---

For more information, see [dotnet add package](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-package) or [Manage package dependencies in .NET applications](/dotnet/core/tools/dependencies).

> ## Example usage

Reviewer: This section should be expanded and the heading renamed to something more meaningful. Also, if there are more APIs or overloads they should be described here as well. [For inspiration, see this example](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/caching/stackexchange-redis-integration?branch=pr-en-us-2041&tabs=dotnet-cli&pivots=redis#add-redis-resource).

In the _:::no-loc text="Program.cs":::_ file of your app host project, call the `AddRustApp` method to add a Rust application to the builder.

```csharp
var rust = builder.AddRustApp("rust-app", "../rust-service");
```

> The Rust application can be added as a reference to other resources in the AppHost project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rust application can be added as a reference to other resources in the app host project.
```

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package CommunityToolkit.Aspire.Hosting.Rust
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="CommunityToolkit.Aspire.Hosting.Rust"
                  Version="*" />
```

---

For more information, see [dotnet add package](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-package) or [Manage package dependencies in .NET applications](/dotnet/core/tools/dependencies).

## Add a Rust resource

In the _:::no-loc text="Program.cs":::_ file of your app host project, call the `Aspire.Hosting.RustAppHostingExtension.AddRustApp` on the `builder` instance to add a Rust application resource as shown in the following example:

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var rust = builder.AddRustApp("rust-app", workingDirectory: "../rust-service")
                 .WithHttpEndpoint(env: "PORT");

var exampleProject = builder.AddProject<Projects.ExampleProject>()
                            .WithReference(rust);

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

> The working directory of the application should be the root of Rust application directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The working directory of the application should be the root of Rust application directory.
```
